Wild Bill Donovan would have loved the Internet. The American spymaster who built the Office of Strategic Services in the World War II and later laid the roots for the CIA was fascinated with information. Donovan believed in using whatever tools came to hand in the “great game” of espionage -- spying as a “profession.” These days the Net, which has already re-made such everyday pastimes as buying books and sending mail, is reshaping Donovan’s vocation as well.
疯狂的比尔 · 多诺文肯定会爱上网络的。这位曾经在第二次世界大战时建立了战略事务办公室，后来又为中央情报局的成立打下了基础的美国间谍大王对情报很着迷。他坚信在间谍这个职业这个“大游戏”中可以使用任何手段。如今，网络已经改变了买书和寄信这样的日常乐事，也正在重新塑造多诺文曾经从事的这个职业。

The last revolution isn’t simply a matter of gentlemen reading other gentlemen’s e-mail. That kind of electronic spying has been going on for decades. In the past three or four years, the World Wide Web has given birth to a whole industry of point-and-click spying. The spooks call it “open source intelligence,” and as the Net grows, it is becoming increasingly influential. In 1995 the CIA held a contest to see who could compile the most data about Burundi. The winner, by a large margin, was a tiny Virginia company called Open-Source Solutions, whose clear advantage was its mastery of the electronic world.
最近的这次革命性的改变不仅仅是一个人偷看另外一个人的电子邮件的问题。这种电子间谍活动已经持续了数十年。在过去的三、四年中，国际互联网已经制造出一个 靠“点击”来进行间谍活动的完整的产业。间谍们把它称为“开放源情报”。而且随着互联网的成长，这样的情报变得越来越有影响力。 1995 年，中央情报局举办了一个竞赛，看谁能够收集到有关“布隆迪”的最多信息。弗吉尼亚的一家名为“开放源解决方案”的小公司大幅胜出，它的显著优势是它对电子世界的把握。

Among the firms making the biggest splash in the new world is Straitford, Inc., a private intelligence-analysis firm based in Austin, Texas. Straitford makes money by selling the results of spying (covering nations from Chile to Russia) to corporations like energy-services firm McDermott International. Many of its predictions are available online at www.straitford.com.
在这个崭新的电子世界中最引起轰动的是一家叫 Stratford 的公司，它是得克萨斯州奥斯汀市的一个私营的情报分析公司。该公司赚钱的路子是将侦察全球各个国家的情报销售给象能源公司“麦克德莫国际”这样的公司。它的许多预测在网上都可以查阅，网址 www. straitford. com 。

Straitford president George Friedman says he sees the online world as a kind of mutually reinforcing tool for both information collection and distribution, a spymaster’s dream. Last week his firm was busy vacuuming up data bits from the far corners of the world and predicting a crisis in Ukraine. “As soon as that report runs, we’ll suddenly get 500 new internet sign-ups from Ukraine,” says Friedman, a former political science professor. “And we’ll hear back from some of them.” Open-source spying does have its risks, of course, since it can be difficult to tell good information from bad. That’s where Straitford earns its keep.
该公司的总裁乔治 · 弗莱德曼说，他把网络世界视为情报收集和情报发布两者之间相互增强的工具，这就是间谍们的梦想。上周，他的公司正在收集从远在世界的另一角落传来的零散的信息，预测在乌克兰将发生一场危机。弗莱德曼以前是政治科学教授，他说：“一旦这个报道公布，我们将在乌克兰突然新增 500 个注册用户，我们将听到其中一些人的回应。”当然开放源的间谍活动的确有它的风险，因为很难区分正确与错误的信息。这正是 Stratford 公司挣钱的地方。

Friedman relies on a lean staff in Austin. Several of his staff members have military-intelligence backgrounds. He sees the firm’s outsider status as the key to its success. Straitford’s briefs don’t sound like the usual Washington back-and-forthing, whereby agencies avoid dramatic declarations on the chance they might be wrong. Straitford, says Friedman, takes pride in its independent voice.
弗莱德曼靠的只是在奥斯汀市的为数不多的雇员。其中的一些有军事情报工作背景。他把公司的“局外人”地位视为它成功的关键。 Stratford 公司的简报听上去不像华盛顿当局常常提供的套话，政府机构往往避免发布戏剧化的言论，因为这些言论可能出错。弗莱德曼说， Stratford 公司为其独立的声音而感到自豪。